In this video I'm going to show you how to download and install Cisco Packet Tracer on a laptop
in this example I've got a Windows 10 laptop which I'm controlling from my Mac.
That just makes it easier to do the recordings but I'm going to show you how to download and install
Cisco Packet Tracer on this laptop.
Now why would you want to use Cisco Packet Tracer Cisco Packet Tracer is firstly free you can download
it by simply registering for a course on Cisco's website.
You don't have to pay for the course you don't actually have to take the course.
You simply need to register on Cisco's website and then you'll be able to download Cisco Packet Tracer
for free.
So it's free software that you can run on your laptop it allows you to simulate quite complex Cisco
typologies these days so you can run cisco rotors and switches you can run servers you can run pieces
you can create fairly complex typologies if you studying for your CCMA as an example Cisco Packet Tracer
is enough to pass the CCMA.
It's not perfect.
It's a simulator rather than an emulator so it doesn't fully simulate the Cisco IAW but it has enough
in it to give you a good foundation in networking and a good understanding of the topics for the CCMA
exam.
So if you're new to networking if you're new to Cisco I'd recommend that you start with Cisco packet
tracer and then later on you can look at technologies or applications such as Gen S3 Cisco viral and
even G.
Okay.
Without further ado let me show you how to build a packet tracer lab.
So the first thing I'm going to do is simply search for Cisco packet tracer and Google first it is the
Cisco Networking Academy.
Now they've recently changed the logging process on the Cisco network Academy Web site.
In the past you had a dedicated email address for this Web site.
Now which users you have Cisco dot com log in and we're told that here to log in if you have an existing
Cisco dot com account use that email and password to log in if not to use your network card email and
password to log in.
Now if you don't have an account scroll down and click enrol to download packet tracer.
This course is an introduction to Cisco Packet Tracer.
It's a good course but you don't have to go through it.
It's 10 hours in length.
It is free.
But again you don't have to go through it if you don't want to go to sign up today and select English
as your language and then put in your details such as your first name your last name and your email
address.
This email address has to be valid because they will email you a link which you have to click on to
complete the enrollment process.
So we told that we need to check our e-mail and click on the Get Started link to access your account.
Okay.
So here's my email from the Cisco Networking Academy I'm going to click activate account you now need
to fill in your details.
Now one of the pieces of advice that I'll give you is if you don't work for a company set the company
name to self as in self-employed.
So specify your country specify your password decide whether you want to get email notifications or
not put the capture information in and then click register.
Now you can sign in with your email address specify your password and click sign in.
Now we're told that they were excited to have us join them.
But we need to fill in some more details.
So as an example specify your agenda specify your state specify how many years of experience you have
in I.T. or networking specify if you have a disability specify your birth date so they ask for quite
a bit of information here specify your race if you want to.
I'm going to choose not to disclose that specify whether you've served in the military and click Create
Account.
OK so now that you've done that you can launch the course if you want to.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to go to resources download packet tracer and what I'm going to do is download the 64 bit
version of packet tracer.
This is version 7 dot to dot too.
They also have a linux version and a Mac OS version but I'm gonna download the 64 bit Windows version.
As you can see here it's downloading Okay so the file is downloaded here it is Packet Tracer 7 2 2 164
setup to install it.
So fairly simple process I'm going to double click on the application click install any way click yes
to allow this app to make changes to my device you need to accept the license agreement so read through
the license agreement and accept it if you want install the software and click.
Next I'm going to mainly stay with a default share to keep it simple as possible so I'm going to use
the default installation directory click Next I'm going to leave for the start menu folder after the
default click Next I'm going to allow the software to create a desktop shortcut and click next and then
I'm going to click install.
So fairly basic installation.
Similar to lots of other applications that you would install on a Windows computer.
The software is installed and I'm now told that for Packet Tracer skills based assessment to use this
version of Packet Tracer.
Please close all web browsers or start your computer when I click Okay shut my web browser and click
finish.
I'm told that I'm running Packet Tracer for the first time so files will be saved here.
I can change that later but I'm going to click Okay.
Packet traces now started and now I can log in with the same credentials that I use on Cisco's Web site
or on the net a cad Web site so I'll specify my username I'll specify my password and click sign in.
Now the firewall is blocking some features so I'm when to click allow access for private networks and
there you go packet tracer has now installed on my Windows computer.
I downloaded it and installed it but now let's bolt some typologies Packet Tracer supports many devices
such as rudders switches hubs wireless devices and others.
He has a router so I'll click on the rotor and then click on the workspace area.
I'll select another router added to the topology.
Select a switch.
Let's take a modern switch such as a 36 50 and drop that into the topology I'll select connections there
various types of connections such as straight through cables crossover cables fiber cables and so forth.
But I'm going to select straight through select the first Ethernet connection on my router selected
the first Ethernet connection on my switch I'll select straight through cable again select to the second
interface on the switch select to the first gigabit interface on the rider and I'll zoom in here to
make it easier to see what's going on.
There are a lot of options available and packet traces are under options preferences I can select this
option always show port labels in a logical workspace so I can now see the interface labels in my topology
what I also want to change is the font because this is probably going to be too small for me so I'm
going to set the C Alai font to 18 and click apply and then close the stone you can move devices around
in your topology you could rename them Sol rename this as root a one I'll rename this as root it too
I'll rename this switch one if you don't like the way these interface labels are set up simply go to
options.
Preferences once again and then uncheck this option and then you can manually add your interface labels.
You can also hide the rudder type by going to options preferences and on selecting this option show
device model labels.
But I want to keep device name labels so that I know the device names in my topology.
I'll go back and display port labels for the moment.
You can remove those and then manually add interface labels so you may prefer doing it this way where
you can control where the interface labels go so I'll do that just to make the topology nicer so something
like that
they're basically a lot of options here that you can use depending on your preferences.
So there you go there's my topology but I'm going to do on Route 1.
He's going to see a fly now I've set the font quite big but notice Rodda has booted and I can now access
a router.
If you're not used to Cisco This is known as user prompt or user mode.
When I use question mark here various commands are displayed in Able is how I get to privilege mode
or enable mode I can type a few characters and then press tab.
Question mark shows me other options but I'm simply going to type enable here.
This gives me other commands that I can use in this mode.
I'm going to type conf T which is basically configure terminal for short I use tab there to order complete
commands I can change the name of the rider and actually this is right too.
I'll set the hostname to rider to back in my topology.
This interface is connected to the switch but to make it more logical let's start with the rider one
so rider 1 CLIA make that bigger.
I don't want to enter the initial configuration dialog so I'm going to say no and press Enter to get
started type E N tab enter that takes me to privilege mode C O N F as in configure tab t tab enter takes
me to global config mode on the rider I can now set a hostname.
So this is a true s.t..
Tab are 1 change the hostname while the rider other commands exist in this mode.
So question mark will show me the commands available to me.
Now this rider has this interface which connects it to the switch so on rider 1 I can go on to interface
gigabit and I'm pressing tab here to order complete 0 0 0.
No shutdown enables the interface by default rider interfaces are shut down.
IP address allows me to configure an IP address on the rider and I'll configure it with this IP address
so I've configured the rider with an IP address of 10 1 1 1 subnet mask 2 5 5 2 4 5 2 4 5 0 and takes
me back to privilege mode or enable mode and I should be able to ping myself on that interface.
At the moment it's not working because notice these interfaces are down the switch by default is powered
off so in this case I need to take a power module and add it to the switch to essentially power on the
switch and here you can see the switches now booting up.
So once the switch is fully booted the interfaces will go green.
You can see this is green on this side orange over here.
This side is still red because I haven't no shut the interface on right to switch interfaces by default
come up right interfaces by default are shut down so you have to enable them.
So on the router CLIA on right of one I can see the interface came up.
So the rudder can now ping itself but let's go to Rod too.
And I know this is not going to look great but I'm going to make this smaller so that you can see what
happens when I know shut the interface on the rudder.
So on rudder to make that a bit bigger interface.
So I a..
Tab G.
Tab so gigabyte 0 0 0.
Notice please what happens when I type in no shut down.
Interface went green.
So I've enabled that interface ip address that I'll configure.
He has 10 1 1 to mosque 2 5 5 2 4 5 2 4 5 0 hopefully right at 2.
We'll be able to ping rider 1 once the interfaces have all gone green which they have.
The reason why these interfaces were orange is because of spanning tree spanning trees a way to stop
loops in a ethernet network.
And in this case it took a while for spanning tree to converge.
In other words make sure that everything was good.
So I've successfully bolted topology using packet tracer
and I've successfully sent traffic from one router to another router through a switch in packet tracer.
Last thing to do is save the configuration and you can do that by typing copy running conflict startup
config and saving it or you can use an old command w r which is right.
So basically writing the configuration.
So I've now bolted topology and packet trace so when I closed packet tracer I'm told that my changes
will be lost.
Do I want to save them.
And the answer is yes.
So I'm going to save this as my first packet tracer lab and click safe.
And there you go.
Start packing trays up once again go to file open recent files select my packet tracer lab and I've
been able to restore my packet tracer lab that I saved previously if I look at the CLIA of Route One
we should notice that it has an IP address as previously configured show run allows me to see the running
config of the rider and what you'll notice is that IP address is configured on gigabit 0 0 0 and now
that the links have gone green I should be able to ping rider to which I'm able to do this first ping
times out because the rider has to opt for the Mac address of the other rider so that's normal behavior.
Okay so there you go.
I've shown you how to download install and use Cisco packet tracer great software it's free helps your
lot with labs especially if you're studying for your CCMA exam.